# You won't get rich renting our your time

**WIP DRAFT**

You can't earn non-linearly when you're renting out your time

From [nav.al](https://nav.al/renting-time)

## Disclaimer

Personally speaking, it feels a bit weird to make this kind of points about
"wanting to get rich" and "how to get rich". Perhaps it is the environment
that I've been raised in, but I can't help but feel a but queasy making these
posts.

Nevertheless, I believe deep down that ambition is good and that we should
never discourage ambition and ambitious people. To quote Steve Jobs: 

>"The people who are crazy enough to think they can change the world are the ones who do."

You want to get that job you love? Go get it! You want that house? Go for
save for it and buy it! You want to find the love of your life? Go get
yourself out there tiger! You want to get rich? Screw it, go for it!

Matter of fact is, I would still like to get *rich*. I don't think it is
inherently "bad" to want to get rich. Truth be told, it is not money that we
seek, it is freedom. Money won't solve all your problems but it will solve
your money problems (and there are many money problems).

Anyway, enough self-flagellation for wanting to get rich and free, here's why
you won't get rich renting our your time.

## Concept 1: You are not going to get rich renting out your time

You are not going to get rich from renting out your time for three key reasons: 

* Your inputs are very closely tied to your outputs.
* You are essentially replaceable when you rent out your time. 
* You are not creating something original for society when you rent out your time. 

## Your inputs are very closely tied to your outputs.

In any salaried job (even the ones that pay a lot per hour like a lawyer of
doctor), you are still putting in the hours. Every hour you work you get
paid.

Conversely, this means that when you are *not* working, you are not earning.
When you're sleeping, you're not earning. When you're on vacation, you're not
earning. When you're retired, you're not earning. In other words, **you can't earn non-linearly on salaried work**.

Please note that this does not mean that you can not earn serious money from
salaried work. On the contrary, you can definitely make a comfortable living
doing highly paid salaried work.

Essentially, if you're not working for yourself you are workig for someone
else. This other person is taking on the risk, accountability, IP, and brand.
In an ultra-capitalistic friction-free environment this person would pay you
just enough to keep you engaged to do your job. And that can still be a high
bare minimum, but this is not going to be true wealth that keeps growing when
you retire.

## You are essentially replaceable when you rent out your time. 

>And you’re essentially replaceable because you’re now doing a set role. Most
set roles can be taught. If they can be taught like in a school, then
eventually you’re gonna be competing with someone who’s got more recent
knowledge, who’s been taught, and is coming in to replace you.

>You’re much more likely to be doing a job that can be eventually replaced by
a robot, or by an AI. And it doesn’t even have to be wholesale replaced overnight. It can be replaced a little bit at a time. And that kind of eats into
your wealth creation, and therefore your earning capability.

When you rent out your time you are doing a set role. And set roles can be
taught. If it can be taught, it can be taught to a computer (in the near
future). Hence you are replaceable. Try to make yourself irreplaceable.

## You are not creating something original for society when you rent out your time. 

>Like I said, this tweetstorm should have been called “How to Create Wealth.”
It’s just “How to Get Rich” was a more catchy title. But you’re not creating
new things for society. You’re just doing things over and over.

I don't necessarily agree with this sentiment. My opinion is that to generate
wealth you must apply technology to do something better, faster, cheaper, or
something completely novel. That's it.

## Concept 2: You must own a piece of business

>If you look at even doctors who get rich, like really rich, it’s because
they open a business. They open like a private practice. And that private
practice builds a brand, and that brand attracts people. Or they build some
kind of a medical device, or a procedure, or a process with an intellectual
property.

Everybody who creates wealth at some point *owns* something (assets). He/she
owns a piece of product, or a business, or some kind of IP. This can be
through stock options or any other way. Even investors do this, they buy
equity, they buy parts of the business which then grows (or shrinks)! Most
paths to wealth start with owning a piece of busines, and they are often not
salaried roles.

## Concept 3: You must disconnect your inputs and outputs 

>One great engineer can for example create bitcoin, and create billions of
dollars worth of value. One not so great engineer can work for an entire a
year, and every piece of code they ship ends up not getting used. Customers
don’t want it.

High creativity high leverage professions is where inputs are more likely to
be disconnected from outputs. So, you want to look for professions and
careers where the inputs and outputs are highly disconnected.

Tools and leverage are what create this disconnection between inputs and
outputs. Creativity, so the higher the creativity component of a profession,
the more likely it is to have disconnected inputs and outputs. This way you
can generate a lot of wealth for everyone (and yourself in the process).
