# Communicate your business value

The most important skill you can learn in business is communication. The
great thing is that communication is a skill, hence the more you practice it
the better you get at it.

## Generate business value

>Your most important professional skill is communication: Remember engineers
are not hired to create programs and how they are hired to create business
value? The dominant quality which gets you jobs is the ability to give people
the perception that you will create value. This is not necessarily
coextensive with ability to create value.

Remember: 

* ⛔️ Engineers (you) are not hired to just "program things".
* ✅ Engineers (you) are hired to create business value.

Note that giving other people the perception that you are able to generate
business value is not necessarily the same as you *actually* being able to
generate business value.

>People routinely assume that I am among the best programmers
they know entirely because a) there exists observable evidence that I can
program and b) I write and speak really, really well

In other words: 

1. Generate business value
2. Communicate this

## Modesty is career limiting

>(Once upon a time I would have described myself as “Slightly below average”
in programming skill. I have since learned that I had a radically skewed
impression of the skill distribution, that programming skill is not what
people actually optimize for, and that modesty is against my interests. These
days if you ask me how good of a programmer I am I will start telling you
stories about how I have programmed systems which helped millions of kids
learn to read or which provably made companies millions. The question of
where I am on the bell curve matters to no one, so why bother worrying about
it?)

Modesty is against your own interest. It doesn't matter where you are on the
bell-curve, what matters is the impact that you have generated. What's even
more awesome is that, as an engineer, you **can actually** do these things.
Engineering is a super high leverage activity so you are actually not
bullshitting, you are actually doing it, you just have to convince yourself
that it is OK to brag about it.

* Personal example, next to my development work at the client building an AI/ML powered chatbot I have saved the client more than $50.000 in costs by slashing build and deploy time.

## Explain like I'm 5

>Communication is a skill. Practice it: you will get better. One key sub-skill
is being able to quickly, concisely, and confidently explain how you create
value to someone who is not an expert in your field and who does not have a
priori reasons to love you. If when you attempt to do this technical
buzzwords keep coming up (“Reduced 99th percentile query times by 200 ms by
optimizing indexes on…”), take them out and try again. You should be able to
explain what you do to a bright 8 year old, the CFO of your company, or a
programmer in a different specialty, at whatever the appropriate level of
abstraction is.

You should be able to quickly, concisely, and confidently explain how you
create value to someone that is not an expert in your field, like your 8 year
old niece or the CEO, whatever abstraction is more appropriate ;).
