# How to reduce attention residue in your life

From [BBC](https://www.bbc.com/worklife/article/20200130-the-life-hack-to-reduce-admin-and-carve-out-downtime)

## Summary

* Batch your life admin, also known as GLYIO for Get Your Life In Order, tasks into specific time-boxed slots, say a morning, day, or week.
* While not always fun, this method of tackling chores will have several benefits such as reducing attention residue and resulting in more guilt-free downtime. 
* Attention residue describes the way our attention is split when we have multiple tasks or obligations on our plate, reducing our overall performance.

## Annotations during reading
>Mundane chores take up our time and headspace. Bundling life admin into
specific time slots - known as GYLIO - might be the ultimate act of
self-care.

Bundle your life admin (GLYIO, for Get Your Life In Order) tasks into
specific time slots.

>From elaborate rituals to planners, products and kits, there’s no shortage
of tools and advice on how to prioritise wellbeing. But perhaps I’m not alone
in dutifully clearing space in my schedule for downtime only to lie in the
bath fretting about all the life admin I have to do, the entire experience
turning lukewarm before the water.

Relate with the audience through shared experience.

>Many of us struggle with the never-ending nature of our to-do lists,
explains Elizabeth Emens, author of The Art of Life Admin and a New
York-based professor of law at Columbia University. “A large part of why we
feel overwhelmed is that life admin is endless and invisible,” she says. “We
all have different types of admin that might not be recognisable to someone
else – so they don't know what we are doing or that it is overwhelming.”

Relate with audience and introduce reader to Emenes + appeal to authority.

>But in recent years, a cluster of Australian universities have been helping
students tackle this issue through dedicated Get Your Life In Order (GYLIO)
practices. Essentially, GYLIO is about bundling tasks into a single morning,
day or week in order to clear your mind; learning to prioritise and find
focus so that you can enjoy guilt-free downtime.

Essentialy, GLYIO is about bundling tasks into a time-boxed slot in the day
to clear your mind so you can enjoy guilt-free downtime.

>The University of Melbourne has run a GYLIO week once every semester for at
least a decade. It usually takes place around the middle of the semester in
week five or six, and while the academic programme continues, the extensive
social and partying schedule is paused to help students shift their
priorities.

Example

>Dr Sally Dalton-Brown, dean of the university’s Queen’s College, says GYLIO
is needed because students face more distractions. “Given the many stimuli of
life today, with students who are juggling the many opportunities colleges
offer across all the areas from sport and culture to volunteering and
leadership, having a week to ‘take a breath’ and get things done is
essential,” she says.

We face more stimuli today, which I think is true.

>The intention is to provide opportunities for rest and reflection rather
than impart specific life skills. Students are encouraged to devise their own
GYLIO to-do lists for the week, but it's not just about paying bills and
doing laundry – they attend events ranging from yoga classes and succulent
planting to wellbeing lectures.

>During a GYLIO week in August last year, current Queen’s College resident
and student president Henri Currie, 19, created a schedule and task list to
use the time to get back on track in classes where she had fallen behind.

It's kind of like a rest and recovery week.

>“The list included updating my study notes and getting started on upcoming
assignments. I also got my exercise regime back, including runs with my
friends. To relax, I took some time to see a movie, call my family and chat
with friends,” says Currie. She thinks GYLIO is a great way to refocus. “Even
just giving it a title seems to spur students into motion and eliminate
excuses,” she says. “I think it really is what you make it – no one will
force you to do self-care stuff.”

GLYIO refocuses, it also eliminates excuses. No one forces you to do so.

>For some, what started out as a week off the booze and time to reset at
college has continued into working life. Now communications manager Celeste
Bolte, who attended St Mary’s College at the University of Melbourne from
2012 to 2013, can spot when it’s time for GYLIO. “When parts of my life that
I'm usually on top of begin to falter, say for example clothes on the floor
in my bedroom, I know I need a day to sort my space out and attend to the
little things,” she says.

>For Bolte, 27, saving up her life admin for a weekend morning is a joyful
way to reduce the mental load. “I take a lot of pleasure in GYLIO, and
setting a morning aside to clean the house, do the washing, cook some food,
go for a run, get my banking sorted and life on track – and then have free
time to go and enjoy myself without feeling like there are these things in
the back of my head that you constantly need to do.”

Some find a lot of pleasure in GLYIO. It reduces the mental load.

>Divided focus

>Focusing on one task at a time until completion helps reduce what Sophie
Leroy, associate professor of management at the University of Washington,
calls “attention residue”; the way that having multiple tasks and obligations
on our mind splits our attention in a way that reduces overall performance.

Attention residue: multiple tasks and obligations splits our attention in a
way that reduces performance.

>“If you have attention residue, you are basically operating with part of
your cognitive resources being busy, and that can have a wide range of
impacts – you might not be as efficient in your work, you might not be as
good a listener, you may get overwhelmed more easily, you might make errors,
or struggle with decisions and your ability to process information.”

Attention residue makes you perform worse in basically anything you do.

>While we can’t remove distractions from our lives, taking a minute to create
a ‘ready to resume list’ and plan a return to a task – like scheduling a
GYLIO session – is one strategy for reducing attention residue. “Asking how
and when you going to attend to a task reduces uncertainty and improves
self-efficacy,” says Leroy.

We can never remove all distractions from our life, but we can do other
things, like create a "ready to resume" task. Or scheduling a GLYIO session

>Bolte’s partner, engineer Peter Fisher, 29, says he knows when it’s time to
clear his to-do list backlog. “If you are organised enough to do a little bit
every day, that’s great, but for me it builds and I realise I've got to get
in and clear the decks,” he says. “It’s not often fun, but I always feel
relieved when I do make the time.”

It's not often fun, but it makes you feel relieved when you do make the time.

>Whether you call it an admin morning, a ‘power hour’ or GYLIO, bundling
small, unrelated chores can be a useful tool for making the invisible,
visible. “It also gives people a language to talk to other people, which can
contribute to the visibility,” says Emens. And if you’re a couple, it could
even be a great way to share the load. “I think it would be especially great
to do a GYLIO day together, so one person isn’t picking up the extra slack,”
comments Emens.

GLYIO: bundling small unrelated chores together.

>I wondered if a GYLIO day could have positive ramifications on my adult
life, too. Without the external support of a university residence, it might
be harder for working people to take GYLIO time – but perhaps all the more
crucial. Journalist Anne Helen Petersen named ‘errand paralysis’ a symptom of
millennial burnout, with an ‘always on’ culture leaving little energy for the
smaller tasks.

It is also called "errand paralysis"

>Don’t crowd the list

>To kick off my GYLIO experiment, I made an extensive list of every task I’d
been avoiding. Yet I fell at the first hurdle: picking the day to do all
these tasks, as other events and deadlines competed for my attention.

Step 1. Make list of all tasks I've been avoiding (ouch).

>Student president Henri Currie recognised my rookie error; overcrowding the
list made it too daunting. “In my first year, GYLIO week ended up being
stressful because I had too much to do,” she recalls. An ambitious list can
also create a build-up of attention residue. “If you are going to put 22
items on your to-do list but not actually move into action, your brain is
going keep thinking about those 22 things that are not done,” says Leroy.

Don't make it too large.

>It was also advised that I make GYLIO my own; a high-tech approach to life
admin, for example, could work for some but not others. “We all have
different preferences for dealing with life admin,” says Emens. “If you just
try to take someone's schedule for GYLIO that may not help you unless that
person is really similar to you in their preferences.”

Make it your own.

>To reset, I decided to limit my GYLIO to an hour and wrote a more modest
list. I noticed a theme in my tasks – call the accountant, book a check-up
with the dermatologist, reply to three text messages and a WhatsApp voice
message, send thank-you cards – so I set up a communication morning, giving
focus and clarity to my agenda.

Cut it down, make it modest. Build momentum. Perhaps GLYIO even shows you
certain patterns about asks you've been avoiding consistently.

>By 09:00 the next morning, I had a spring in my step. I found telling myself
that I was “getting my life in order” had the positive reinforcement of
feeling like my life was in order – spurring me on to make my next GYLIO
list.

It worked, for the author.

>Emens cautions that there are downsides of GYLIO – including giving you the
illusion that you can take care of all your life admin in a day. “Sometimes
you can't control when it needs to happen and you might be waiting on other
people in order to take the next step,” she says.

>Another caveat is that GYLIO might encourage people to put off onerous tasks
until they have a full list. Here, Emens recommends bypassing the to-do list
altogether if you can. “Email someone the information she wants while she's
still standing there – so it never goes on your to-do list,” she offers as an
example.

>Emens believes we need to find the balance between getting life admin done
and safeguarding our wellbeing. “We have to recognise that these obligations
are real and not invented and yet it is also true that if we don't sometimes
put the self-care first, we will never get to it,” she says.

>In my case, the GYLIO experiment proved that self-care is less about carving
out time to relax amid chaos, and more about removing to-dos from our crowded
lives. With some life admin cleared away, I had a bubble bath and enjoyed the
smug delight of a life – momentarily – in order.

Self care is about carving time to relax amid chaos.