# Lessons for a new developer

The main gist of this musing is that there are some very valuable lessons
that I learned during my "first" time on a "real" software project.

## You don't need to be productive on day 1

No one, and then I mean no one, expects you to be productive within your
first day of arriving. So don't put that unrealistic expectation on yourself!

In all honesty, depending on the size of the project (small start-up vs
enterprise) it can take a good 1-6 months to become truly productive, having
enough knowledge and experience with the system to confidently change and
adapt it.

## You need to break the system

You can read read read and keep reading more code, but the only real way to
gain feel for the system is to poke around in the system and break it.
What happens if I break this here? What happens if I do this? 

This ties in with testing, this is the reason why testing and developer
workflow is so important, a new developer should never be scared of touching
the code. I, for one, was really scared to touch the code. It wasn't "my
code" and I was "scared of breaking it".

Yes. Really. 

This also ties in with testing, and why it is so important. Testing is
important because it provides a safeguard. If someone changes some code and
the tests don't run anymore, why? What happened? Etc. Testing, good testing
at least, gives new developers the confidence that they can change the code
without disastrous results.

For example, I recently cloned this google repo and ran the tests, then I
changed some code to modify the code to my needs and re-ran the tests. They
still worked. WHAT?! Amazing! Good testing is key.

## You can do it

Big new things are scary. It is normal to sometimes feel anxious on tackling a
large code base. Where do I start? Can I really do it? This point has to do
with confidence. **You. Can. Do. It.** You are smart and talented enough to
figure it out, somehow.

"And when you gaze long into an abyss the abyss also gazes into you." And
when you stare long enough into a code base ... it will stare back at you.
Anyway, if you stare long enough at a code base at some point it starts to
make sense. Trust me on this one.

## Summary

The three main points you need to keep in mind starting as a new developer: 

1. Don't place unrealistic expectations on yourself. No one expects you to be
super productive on day 1. Chill.

2. You need to fiddle with the system, get used to the developer workflow and
start breaking stuff in local. This is how you learn how the system works.

3. You can do it. Trust me. You have the knowledge, skills, and attitude to
make it work. You can do it. It just takes some time.


