# High output management (part 1)

## Introduction

>Now, I’m sure that at various times you will take exception to what you read
in this book. “This may be fine at Intel,” you will say, “but it would never
fly at PDQ, where I work. Nothing does until the Old Man himself decrees it.
Short of a palace revolution, I can’t use anything you recommend.” Let me
assure you that you will be able to use most of what I say. As a middle
manager, of any sort, you are in effect a chief executive of an organization
yourself. Don’t wait for the principles and practices you find appealing to
be imposed from the top. **As a micro CEO, you can improve your own and your
group’s performance and productivity, whether or not the rest of the company
follows suit.**

Andy Grove says that you are the CEO of your own career, or team, so act like it. 

>This book contains three basic ideas. The first is an output-oriented
approach to management. That is to say, we apply some of the principles and
the discipline of the most output-oriented of endeavors—manufacturing—to
other forms of business enterprise, including most emphatically the work of
managers. 

Idea 1: Output-oriented approach to management.

>The second idea is that the work of a business, of a government bureacracy,
of most forms of human activity, is something pursued not by individuals but
by teams. This idea is summed up in what I regard as the single most
important sentence of this book: **The output of a manager is the output of the
organizational units under his or her supervision or influence.**

Idea 2: Business is a team sport. 

>A team will perform well only if peak performance is elicited from the
individuals in it. This is the third idea of the book. Can business use
whatever it is that motivates an athlete to put out his “personal best”
consistently? I think business can, which is why I examine the sports analogy
and the role of something called task-relevant feedback to get and to sustain
a high level of performance from the members of a business team.

Idea 3: Elicit peak performance from each individual using task-relevant
feedback.

>With fewer levels in today’s organization, each manager will have larger
numbers of employees reporting to him than was the case ten years ago. One of
the fundamental tenets of Intel’s managerial philosophy is the one-on-one
meeting between a supervisor and a subordinate. Its main purposes are mutual
education and the exchange of information. By talking about specific problems
and situations, the supervisor teaches the subordinate his skills and
know-how, and suggests ways to approach things. At the same time, the
subordinate provides the supervisor with detailed information about what he
is doing and what he is concerned about. Obviously, one-on-ones take time,
both in preparing for them and in actually holding them—time that today’s
busier manager may not have.

One-on-ones are crucial. 

>As a general rule, you have to accept that no matter where you work, you are
not an employee—you are in a business with one employee: yourself. You are in
competition with millions of similar businesses. There are millions of others
all over the world, picking up the pace, capable of doing the same work that
you can do and perhaps more eager to do it. Now, you may be tempted to look
around your workplace and point to your fellow workers as rivals, but they
are not. They are outnumbered—a thousand to one, one hundred thousand to one,
a million to one—by people who work for organizations that compete with your
firm. So if you want to work and continue to work, **you must continually
dedicate yourself to retaining your individual competitive advantage.**

Your teammates are not your rivals, outsiders are. 

>In a slow or no-growth environment, there is another factor that you have to
contend with as well: ambitious junior employees who desire to move upward in
the organization. They may very well be ready to do so but can’t because
you’re in the way. Sooner or later, your boss will inevitably have to make a
choice: whether to hold on to you, who is doing a good job but is in the way
of another person. The responsibility to avoid such situations is yours.

Flipping this around, look for high-growth environments as they are positive
sum. Your win does not mean someone else's loss and vice versa.

>The point is, the clichés of globalization and the information revolution
have real meaning—potentially deadly meaning—for your career. **The sad news
is, nobody owes you a career. You own it as a sole proprietor. You must
compete with millions of individuals every day, and every day you must
enhance your value, hone your competitive advantage, learn, adapt, get out of
the way, move from job to job, even from industry to industry if you must and
retrench if you need to do so in order to start again. The key task is to
manage your career so that you do not become a casualty.**

You (me) and only you (me) are responsible for your own career. Not your
manager, not your suboordinates (if you have any). They will be there
alongside your journey, but only you are responsible for your own career.

>I can offer you no surefire formula. But here are a few questions to ponder:

>1. Are you adding real value or merely passing information along? How do you
add more value? By continually looking for ways to make things truly better
in your department. You are a manager. The central thought of my book is that
the output of a manager is the output of his organization. In principle,
every hour of your day should be spent increasing the output or the value of
the output of the people whom you’re responsible for.

Think: 

* Are you really adding value or just passing information along? 
* Are you continously looking for ways to do things better?
* Are you thinking about how to increase the output of your team every hour of the day? 

>2. Are you plugged into what’s happening around you? And that includes what’s
happening inside your company as well as inside your industry as a whole. Or
do you wait for a supervisor or others to interpret whatever is happening?
Are you a node connected to a network of plugged-in people or are you
floating by yourself?

Are you connected to the hive?

>3. Are you trying new ideas, new techniques, and new technologies, and I mean
personally trying them, not just reading about them? Or are you waiting for
others to figure out how they can re-engineer your workplace—and you out of
that workplace?

Are you being proactive? Or are you just reading about it? Are you
action-biased?

>I am an engineer by training and a manager of a high-technology company by
profession. As a manager, I am also a member of the group of individuals—many
millions strong in the United States alone—that holds the key to increased
productivity: generating more and better goods and services to meet people’s
needs. I am an optimist and believe our potential to increase our wealth has
hardly been tapped.

The world is full of opportunities. Be a rational optimist. Our potential is
not yet fulfilled.

>But I also think that people do not always face up to the changes they have
to deal with, so at times I feel I have to be a realist, too. You can’t be
optimistic about the future until you have survived the crucible of change.
The key to survival is to learn to add more value—and that ultimately is what
this book is about.

Next to being a rational optimist, sometimes we must face the music. Besides
being optimistic be realistic. Always add value.

>From my own experience at Intel, I strongly believe that applying the methods
of production, exercising managerial leverage, and eliciting an athlete’s
desire for peak performance can help nearly everyone—lawyers, teachers,
engineers, supervisors, even book editors; in short, middle managers of all
kinds—to work more productively.

The central thesis of this book: 

* By applying methods of production
* Exercising managerial leverage
* Eliciting an athlete's desire for peak performance
* We can all work more productively together. 

>Andrew S. Grove

>April 1995

This was written almost 25 years ago. 