# Reject most advice

Came across [this](https://nav.al/reject-advice) really short (less than 3
minutes) and interesting podcast by Naval and Nivi.

## On how to read tweets 

This paragraph had quite some impact on me, especially on how to read tweets by "thought leaders" and then in particular Naval himself. 

>I use tweets to compress my own learnings. Your brain space is finite. You
have finite neurons. You can think of these as pointers, addresses, mnemonics
to help you remember deep-seated principles where you have the underlying
experience to back it up.

>If you don’t have the underlying experience, then it reads like a collection
of quotes. It’s cool. It’s inspirational for a moment. Maybe you make a nice
poster out of it. But then you forget it and move on.

His tweets are for himself, not for us, but with this framework we can more
easily compress our own learnings and recall them when experience calls for
it.

## Real life example

For example, I could have tweeted the following as a twitter thought leader

>You always pay twice. Opportunity cost. 

Prior to reading this new way of reading tweets I would have puked my brains
out if I were to tweet this, but now that I actually recalled this maxim
during a conversation I had with my mother I realize the value in lexical
compression.

I had a conversation with my mother and she asked me why I never decided to
continue to pursue a PhD, it's just 4 years! And more credentials are always
better! Then I told her that you always pay twice, I would have to do the PhD
(the actual cost) and then I would **not** be able to do other things (the
opportunity cost). I told her about all my classmates that didn't pursue a
2nd MPhil degree but started working immediately, these people are "further
ahead" in their career now, or at the very least have 2+ years of corporate
experience on me. I thought this was interesting.

## Maxims

>Maxims are compressed learnings to help you remember deep-seated principles
where you have the underlying experience to back it up.

Our brains are finite, use lexical compression to remember learnings and
recall them when you have the experience to back it up.

>Avoid people giving you their winning lottery ticket numbers. 

Be wary of people that are giving advice that made them succesful, decide whether it applies in your context or not. 

>Systems, not goals. 

"We do not rise to the level of our goals, we fall to the level of our
systems."

>Listen to everyone, then listen to no one. 

Gather as much advice and information as you can, then decide what to keep
and what to discard.

## Transcript

>Nivi: One of the tweets from the cutting-room floor was: “Avoid people who
got rich quickly. They’re just giving you their winning lottery ticket
numbers.”

>Naval: This is generally true of most advice. It goes back to Scott
Adams—systems not goals. If you ask a successful person what worked for them,
they often read out the exact set of things that worked for them, which might
not apply to you. They’re just reading you their winning lottery ticket
numbers.



>It’s a little glib. There is something to be learned, but you can’t take
their exact circumstance and map it onto yours. The best founders I know read
and listen to everyone. But then they ignore everyone and make up their own
mind.

>They have their own internal model of how to apply things to their
situation. And they do not hesitate to discard information. If you survey
enough people, all of the advice will cancel to zero.

>You have to have your own point of view. When something is sent your way,
you have to quickly decide: Is it true? Is it true outside of the context of
how that person applied it? Is it true in my context? And then, Do I want to
apply it?

>You have to reject most advice. But you have to listen to enough of it, and
read enough of it, to know what to reject and what to accept.

>Even in this podcast, you should examine everything. If something doesn’t
feel true to you, put it down. Set it aside. If too many things seem untrue,
delete this podcast.

>Advice offers anecdotes to recall later, when you get your own experience

>Nivi: I think the most dangerous part of taking advice is that the person
who gave it to you isn’t going to be around to tell you when it doesn’t apply
any more.

>Naval: I view the purpose of advice a little differently than most people. I
view it as helping me have anecdotes and maxims that I can recall when I have
my own direct experience and say, “Ah, that’s what that person meant.”

>Ninety percent of my tweets are maxims that become mental hooks to remind me
when I’m in that situation again.

>Like, “Oh, I’m the one who tweeted, ‘If you can’t see yourself working with
someone for life, then don’t work with them for a day.’” As soon as I know
I’m not going to be working with someone 10 years from now, then I have to
start extricating myself from that relationship or investing less effort in
it.

>I use tweets to compress my own learnings. Your brain space is finite. You
have finite neurons. You can think of these as pointers, addresses, mnemonics
to help you remember deep-seated principles where you have the underlying
experience to back it up.

>If you don’t have the underlying experience, then it reads like a collection
of quotes. It’s cool. It’s inspirational for a moment. Maybe you make a nice
poster out of it. But then you forget it and move on.

>These are compact ways for you to recall your own knowledge.